---
layout: post
title: RoboBall
published: true
---
# RoboBall
Robot games are cool! Which is why when i studied python at university i wrote 
a game called botball in which (virtual) robots written in python would vie for
glory on a (virtual) football field, all in real time. After a weekend of
exploring python i released the game to my fellow classmates to a resounding
lack of interest. I believe many of the students were not prepared for writing
threaded football playing robots, in fact, due to a publishing error in which 
the course had no prerequisites, many of them were not prepared to write a 
hello world. Discouraged by the awkward silence however i shelved 
the project and moved on.

Robot games are still cool and i still love this idea, so i have
decided to persue it in the hope that it sparks some interest after all. Perusing 
my old source files i encountered the error message "OMG Batman" so i decided 
to start from scratch and leverage some experience gained. My vision is to 
create a small online community where programmers can upload bots to compete 
in an ongoing competition with live results and web based playback visualisation
(botball was ANSI). I have also come up with a _revolutionary_ new name 
to kick off the project.

##Rationale
Destroying the world: many have tried, programmers will succeed. I've seen
enough apocolypse movies to know that AI will destroy us all, and yet most
of the robot games i have seen revolve around combat where programmers create 
ever more clever and efficient methods for reaping destruction. Don't get
me wrong, i'm not a pacifist, i play Call of Duty and love it, but somehow 
training the next generation of killer robots seems like a bad idea. It may
be that, through a process of digital evolution, when the time comes to start
booting androids the most advanced code is aimed at warfare.

So what attributes would you like to see when you are facing a steel framed 
monster android of the future? Co-operation? Team Work? In RoboBall the robot
is a team of 8 robots working together to solve the complex problem of
getting the ball past the other team and into the goal. The challenge is to 
overcome the strategies employed by each opposing team coordinating each player
to either defend or attack and score points. RoboBall is aimed at developing
a problem base which will encourage the creation of routines which may be
of practical benefit in the technological world of the future.
    
## The Game 
The game is played on a field which is comprised of a rectangular grid with 
a goal at each end. Each team has an initial side which they must defend while 
attempting to move the ball to the other goal. Each bot may move or kick the 
ball in any of 8 directions being horizontal, vertical or diagonal. It is
most similar to soccer although digital constraints make it much simpler, and
therefore much easier to develop.

## The Rules
_These numbers are not final and are only intended for illustration_
* The field is a grid of 16 by 65
* 8 Robots on each team
* The game consists of 10 rounds, with each team starting with the ball 5 times
* A point is scored when a robot kicks or carries a ball into the opposite goal
* A foul is scored when the ball is kicked or carried off the field at any other point
* A round ends when a point or foul is scored
* The winner is the player with the most points and, in case of a tie, the least fouls
* When the fouls are tied a sudden death round occurs

## Conclusion
Look out for the source which will be published as a github repository in the 
coming weeks. Expressions of interest, arguments and potential collaborators
are definitely welcome, by [email](mailto:dylan@dje.me) or comment.

